Welcome to the first unit of the video lecture series on the basics of Business Informatics. Today, we will discuss the discipline of Business Informatics and take a look at three Topics: firstly, the concept of digital transformation, then what constitutes an information system and what topics business informatics deals with. Why this topic is relevant for you in your business studies at all? 
Let's take a look at the worldwide Nighty expenses where we can clearly identify a rising trend and can also identify a sharp increase in spending around the start of the coronavirus pandemic and also see that this spending is not going back to its original level. We take a look at the press review, where the topic of digitalization is discussed again and again Public authorities are to be made even more digital in the future. Technology will be integrated into your home through SmartHome cations and digitalization creates growth, new added value and new jobs. And in the latest report from the President of the Austrian Computer Society, it is important to deal with this topic, i.e. that it is an omnipresent topic that has become firmly anchored in our society. And we can equip our own four walls relatively easily with smart technology and for this reason the first point we will discuss here is the digital transformation. 
From the definition of the term to the three dimensions of digitization and then to challenges and issues that are particularly relevant in the context of digitization in business and society. Let's take a look at a definition according to Leimeister, what digitization is. Yes, what is meant by digitalization? If you look at it, we see that digitalization is understood to mean the changes and their results in all parts of human society that arise from the increased use of digital technologies. And from this definition we can now look at these three dimensions of digitalization here according to Leimeister. If we look at these three dimensions with the external Focus, with the internal focus and the result as a smart product or service that together form the title businesswoman.
Let's take a closer look at the first dimension, internal focus, the x-axis. It's about digital processes in and between companies, that are also supported by Information Systems. And these are mainly processes, that take place in the background, backstage processes, that can be supported and also changed by digitization. And this is especially true in the German-speaking world of business informatics. Process Management, business process management, we will hear more about this later. And an example of this would simply be the support provided by an ERP System, enterprise resource planning system. Through such an information system, business processes in the company can now be supported. This is the first dimension of this, internal focus. Via the backstage processes, the processes that take place within or between entrepreneurs.
If you go further to the 2nd Dimension, the external focus, then it is above all this interface to the customer, the design of offers in the sense of the users and users frontstage. We take into account the requirements of the customers and keyword who these users use orientation also here in the example picture example picture which yes the configurations of a product yes explicitly adapted to the customer and who has this consolation configuration system it is here just a possibility of individualization. This is this second dimension of the external Focus. 
And if you then go on to the third dimension the Z-axis to the back here with the smart production service this is about a new aspect of digitization 1 1 Performance results yes what does that mean alone now she will look at the picture with this Lego old child is now playing with Lego as normal maybe has an analogue instruction manual where but through digitization and maybe a mobile device through a QR code that I can scan somewhere I can expand the result again I can add to it and thus I can then expand the result again. I can add to it and maybe I can then control a mission via iPad and assemble this toy via this mission, so that would also be the keyword here with second screening hearty Lego construction set that is being expanded here everything is mainly about this aspect that I can simply expand and supplement the product through digitization, which in itself is already available in analog form.
 So, to summarize these three dimensions of external focus interfocus and the result leads to the title Business. And this of course now offers us opportunities to think in these dimensions as a company to set up strategies also as a company together: okay we want to position ourselves explicitly on this one dimension or we want to try to position ourselves on all dimensions. We want to position ourselves explicitly on this one dimension or we want to try to position ourselves on all dimensions and this topic of the possibility of changing business models offers new opportunities to implement new business models and changes the value creation of products and Services. 
Next we look at the challenges and issues of digitization and there are simply printable buzzwords that the are also used again and again in the media and pop up everywhere. And if you take a closer look then this is one of these passwords, for example cloud computing. Many services when data processing is outsourced to service centers, service-data center. Which means that this is a challenge and a possible new business model and a business model that is also being driven forward as well as the Internet of Things. Yes you have your refrigerator at home or your networked intelligent components in the household on all this has new potential. Yes and also new challenges that have to be solved as well as all the amounts of data that are generated. Big Data is this, this word which is also often used. There must be managed must be processed and must then also be used above all and can then also be used above all for analysis in order to make better forecasts next topic IT security.
 A topic that is becoming increasingly relevant is simply cybercrime is omnipresent in the context and is becoming more and more present. We have to take care of it and also ask the question: Are our data safe? Are they kept safe? What do I do to you in the event of an attack or in the event of a loss of data? Solve all these questions music exactly. And a topic of course artificial intelligence is always. Agents that support boys in making decisions, Agents that might also want to make private vacation bookings in the future, but also agents that support us in making decisions in the economy. All this holds potential on the one hand, but also dangers and these challenges must of course be faced and solved. Furthermore, augmented reality, virtual reality, the topic of expanding the visual environment and also the integration of this into the working environment is something that opens up a lot of potential and many new possibilities. And also here the question: How will this change? How will it change the environment? In this respect yes and blockchain happy new concept which could and will change the banking sector and the way we manage bookings in the long term. And there are also challenges that need to be addressed, ultimately the question of sustainability and ethical computing. Ethical computing sustainable and ethical computing as a topic area, where discussions need to be initiated and how we deal with data. How we operate data centers, sustainably energy as well as data is a precious commodity that means we have to make sure that it is used sustainably and idly.