Welcome to the first unit of the video lecture series on the fundamentals of business informatics. Today, we will broadly discuss the discipline of business informatics and examine three related topics. First, the concept of digital transformation, then what constitutes an information system, and the topics that business informatics deals with. Why is this topic relevant for you in the study of economics at all?  
Let’s take a look at global IT expenditures, where we can clearly identify an upward trend and also see a sharp increase in expenditures around the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we can observe that these expenditures do not return to their original levels. Let’s take a look at the press review, where the topic of digitalization is frequently discussed. Government procedures are expected to be increasingly enabled digitally in the future. Technologies integrated into your home through smartphone applications and digitalisation creates growth, new value creation and new jobs. And in the announcement most recently from the president of the Austrian computer Society it is important to engage with this topic. We can see that IT is an omnipresent topic that has become embedded in our society. Nowadays we might book and share our cars through a platform, we listen to music through a streaming service provider and we can relatively easily equip our own four walls with smart technology. And for this reason, the first point we will discuss here is the digital transformation. 
First, we will look at the definition of the term, then delve into the three dimensions of digitalization and finally examine challenges and questions that are particularly relevant in the context of digitalization in business and society. Let's look at the definition by Leimeister of what digitalization is and what is understood by digitalization. If we take a closer look, we see that digitalisation refers to the changes and the outcomes in all parts of human society that arise from the increased application of digital technologies. Yes, and coming from this definition, we can now look at these three dimensions of digitalization here according to Leimeister. And when we look at that we have these three dimensions with the external focus, the internal focus and the result, the result being a smart product or service which together form the digital business. 
Let's take a closer look at this. First dimension, internal focus, the x-axis. This involves coke digital processes within and between companies, which are also supported by Information Systems. And these are primarily processes, that take place in the background, backstage processes, that can be supported and also changed through digitalisation and this is especially true in the German-speaking world of business informatics, where process management and business process management or coop fields. We will hear more about this later and an example of this would be the support provided by an Erp system, enterprise resource planning system, which we will also discuss further later on. But through such a system, through such an information system business processes in the company can now be supported. This is the first dimension the internal focus on backstage processes, the processes that occur within and between companies.
All right and if we move on to the second dimension, the external focus, it is primarily about the interface with the customer. The design of offerings in terms of the you know users, front stage, here we take into account the requirements of the customers and the key word would be user orientation. In the example image the configurations of a product are explicitly tailored to the customer and yes, these configuration systems are indeed a way of customisation here. This is the second dimension of the external Focus. 
And if you then move on to the third dimension the z-axis towards the back here with the smart product and service, it is about a new aspect of the digitalisation of a performance outcome. What does that mean? Now if you look at the picture here with Lego the child is playing completely normally with Lego maybe with an analog instruction manual but we're through digitalisation and perhaps a mobile device through a QR code that I can scan somewhere can I further expand the result. I can supplement it and thereby I might be able to control a mission by or an iPad and assemble this toy through this mission. So, this would also be the key word here with second screening, this Lego building set, that is being expanded here. So it's mainly about the aspect that through digitalisation I can simply expand and enhance the product, which already exists in an analog form or the service. 
Yes, so to summarize once again these three dimensions external Focus, internal focus and you send lead to the results of the digital business and this now offers as opportunities to think in these dimensions, to develop strategies as a company. And also, to say as a company okay, we want to explicitly position ourselves in this one dimension or we want to try to position ourselves in all dimensions and all of this this digitalisation, this topic of the possibilities it offers changes business models, provides new opportunities to conduct and implement new business models and alters the value creation of products and services. 
Next, we will look at the challenges and issues of digitalization. There are certain buzzwords, that are frequently used in the media and everywhere else. One of these passwords for example is cloud computing. Many services are outsourced and data processing is outsourced to service data centres that means this is a challenge and also a potential new business model and a business model that is also being driven forward. The same goes for the internet of things. You have your smart refrigerator at home or your connected intelligence components in the household. All this brings new potential and also new challenges that need to be addressed. Similarly, all the data volumes that are generated often referred to as Big Data need to be managed processed and can especially be used for analysis to make better forecast.
Next topic, IT security, a subject that is becoming increasingly relevant simply put cybercrime is ubiquitous in this context and is becoming increasingly prevalent we need to take care of this and also ask the question: Are our data secure? Are they being stored safely? What do I do in the case of an attack or in the case of data loss? I need to solve all these issues. Exactly and one topic of course is artificial intelligence which is currently being prominently covered in the media. Agents that assist us in making decisions, agents that might possibly handle private vacation bookings in the future but also agents that support us in making business decisions, all this holds potential on one side but also risks and these challenges must of could be faced and solved. Furthermore, augmented reality and virtual reality, the topic of expanding the visual environment and integrating it into the work environment is something that offers a lot of potential and many new possibilities. And similarly here, the question is: How will the environment change in this regard? Yes, and blockchain for example, as a new concept could and will change the banking sector and the way we manage transactions. In the long-term, there are of course challenges and questions that need to be addressed and ultimately the question of sustainability and also ethical computing. Here ethical computing and sustainable computing are topics where discussions need to be initiated and we need to address how we might handle data and how we can operate data centres sustainably, energy as well as data. Our precious commodities here that means we need to ensure that this is used sustainably and ethically in 2001.
